Hey guys how's it going.
Are you ready to start creating your first years in the world.
Breasting costume either.
I hope so because today you're going to learn a lot of new and cool things great in this lesson.
You'll see that the customized tool is very powerful and versatile.
Use of the my students say that these are the most interesting lessons of the whole course.
So without much delay let's get started.
The first few are going to be building.
Is this copyright area here.
Well you can see that it is a simple text field to tell the truth.
There is no great need to make it a customizable field.
We could simply create it directly in the code or create a very simple text widget so that a user could
edit it.
However I'm going to teach you how to include it.
The thing customized for learning purposes as it is just a text field.
It serves perfectly for you guys to understand how to customize your words in the least traumatic way
possible to begin with as far up our Sublime Text as create a folder called ink and then that's let's
create a new file called customized or that page be you'll be creating all the necessary fields in this
firefight.
However since this file is not automatically loaded along with wordpress when it's required inside the
functions that BGP file that intern is automatically loaded.
To do this.
Open up the functions file and use in a native function called required.
Let's include our newly created file so we acquire now to get the path to the same directory we use
get template directory and concatenated with the file path.
Remember you add this forward slash in OK.
Otherwise the file will not be found OK ready to save.
Now in customized BHB Let's start creating something first.
Open the tag.
We don't need to decode tag that's create a function.
The name of this function may be wherever name you want.
In my case I'll call this function.
Learn w the underscore customize for the name is not so important but it's very important that you pass
a parameter to it and this parameter is a variable called the Customize that simple well.
Let's recall some basic details that are mentioned in the last list.
The customize it is made up of sections and inside each section.
We have one or more controls right.
There are also something called Pennino and inside each panel we can have several sections.
But are we not to use any example that uses panels because they made the code very complex.
Let's just stick with sections which can have different controls.
So let's create in this order a first section.
Let's make a comment here indicating that this section will be for corporate information.
Pay close attention to the structure that I'm going to explain to you now.
At first glance it looks very complicated and it can confuse you a lot with when you create it once
it can be copied and pasted so you can create the other sections and then your other controls etc..
The first thing you're going to do is call a variable name the way you the customer is.
In fact technically speaking this variable is an object of the W.P. customize manager class that is
responsible for handling the execution and control of the customized itself.
Let's add a small aero D-minus and the greater than sign and we're going to pass here a function called
add underscore section.
Again technically speaking to be more precise this class object here is calling the class method name
and section you'll see.
Still in this lesson and each time you'll be calling a different method when you are building sections.
Use add underscore section but for controls you're going to use add up the score control and so on.
Okay now inside that section you're going to pass information.
First a name or an ID for that section and then an array argument first section Id always use a name
that starts with SAQ underscore something you see in this lesson that this will help a lot.
Not to get lost within the code.
So I recommend that you do the same.
Now you finish out the create an array with a few arguments as best you argument.
The first one is going to be tied to let's dive here.
Copyright
and the second argument is going to be description
the value of the title argument will be inside the clickable object of the section when you click on
this object.
You see the controls that it has inside.
Now comes a detail that I didn't explain in the last lesson because it wouldn't make much sense then
but now it makes more sense.
Between the suction and the controls we have the so-called settings that are responsible for storing
the data entered by the user in each control sending that data directly to the database.
Without these settings is not possible to persist any data into the database.
A curiosity where press saves all the data inside W.P. options table.
So if you need to check out how this customized data is stored into the database just take a look at
this table.
Basically the setting structure is very similar to a section.
We start with the object.
Now instead of calling add section we call another Mathilde's name and setting.
Here we also pass two parameters.
The first one is the name of the Saddy and the second is an array of arguments for the name of the setting.
I generally use something like set underscore something.
Now Isadore passed the following arguments.
First is type.
This argument applies to the type of field that will be stored in the database.
You can have two types of foods option and theme modifications are simply theme underscore mode to better
understand the difference between one and the other.
Let's see what the word preselect limitation tells us.
So here the documentation states that there are two primary types of sand's options and theme modifications
options are stored directly into the options table of the Wordpress database and apply it to the site
regardless of the active theme themes should rarely if ever add settings of the option type themed mods.
On the other hand are specific to a particular film.
So for the first argument let's set the value as the model.
OK.
The second argument is the default value of the theme we we're saving.
For example let's step in here.
Copyright x All rights reserved.
And the last one is sanitize Colback.
Unfortunately I look a lot but I haven't found good documentation explaining all the values that can
be used in this field at this point.
WordPress documentation is too poor at least until the recording of this lesson.
It is because it doesn't say nothing about this argument sanitized Colbeck.
What I found out is that in this field we can specify the name of some field sanitization function used
by Wordpress or some that are sanitized and function that you can create yourself.
This is important because everything the user types for any control will be sent to the database.
And before that happens the data should be sanitized or in other words they must be cleaned out the
name of the function will depend on the type of field we intend to create.
For example for text fields it may be sufficient to pass a function called ESC attribute or only ask
underscore a TTR.
This function filters and cleans the data passed through a text textfield removing special or invalid
characters for numeric fields.
I generally use the Absynth function but as I said there is little documentation on this so I'm not
sure if these are the correct functions she use.
As soon as I have more information on this I will certainly keep you updated.
But let's continue.
You already have a section created and also our setting but the control itself is missing.
Just pick things up.
Copy the structure here.
I'm going to rename the methods to add control and the name of the control is going to the city R L
and the score coprolite I want to remove this arguments because they will be different.
Let's get straight to the arguments then.
The first one is label and applies to the name that appears before the field
then description.
Now let's treat deserve a little more attention.
Section here we have to specify the name of the section to which this control is connected to and the
name is SEC on the score copyright
settings here inform the name of the setting that would save the value back to this control.
In our case it is set on the score.
Copyright notice why I identified the name of the section and citing the specifics as it helps me very
much not to get lost in the code.
And now the last argument type this is the kind of control or feuds you're building.
In our case it's going to be a text type field.
It could also be textarea checkbox select radio etc.
and now to finish all this file for today.
We're going to add an action to this function we just created.
So an action and this function needs to be triggered on a hook called customize the score register.
And here in the second parameter indicate the name of our function.
Learn the WP customize for
OK let's safe
and we can already see if everything's working.
Let's go to the customize for
you.
We have the section that we just created and then that the field be created with its default value.
Well I set another value to this field.
And safe at this point that every entered has been already stored in the W.P. options table.
So with every change you made in the field the data will be updated in the database.
There is only one way to fast this value from the database and show it on the screen as open up.
Or for that page file then let's delete this text here.
And to call it The field is very easy.
That's used to get theme maade function and pass inside it the name of the setting that stores the value
of the field.
In our case the setting is called Set underscore cooperated in order for the saved value to be displayed
on the screen.
The awning that you actually read out I saved this and see if it's working.
First let's check the thing
Excellent.
Now let's reopen the thing because the miser and let's make some changes.
Look how interesting the viewing area is refreshing and the field value changes according to what A-type.
Very cool.
We have our first few working in customizing What a breakthrough.
But I still have a good way to go.
We still have our logo for example and the map.
Yes the map.
You see what we still got for the map.
So that's all for now and see you then in the next license.